>> Jason Pamental: We're gonna review
a couple of quick points, and then,
we'll actually go about copying
one of the sample pages,
and adding in everything that
we need to load web fonts, and
walk through all of the code
that's in place there.
So in implementing web fonts,
don't block page render.
That is the most important thing,
because you have to deal with that.
53% of users on mobile or desktop,
are gonna bail out on a site,
if it takes more than three seconds
to see content on the screen.
Now, that happens to coincide
with every single browser,
now, standardizing on waiting for three
seconds to see if those web fonts load.
And after 2.9 seconds,
do you wanna gamble?
So that's where using things like
these font loading techniques, and
font display swap where it's supported, I
know that was a comment in the chat room.
They're all layers to this, ways to get
content on the screen quickly, and then,
make sure that things come in behind it,
and then, complete the experience.
So in making these kinds of choices,
we don't wanna just check all the boxes.
Likewise, we don't wanna do
the same thing on Google fonts.
Of course,
this is now willfully out of date
screenshot of the Google fonts interface,
but you get the idea.
If you start to customize it, it's gonna
give you a little indicator that tells you
how terrible a person you're being
by loading too many font files.
There are a little aggressive.
If you select more than two, it's gonna
start to tell you that you're doing bad
things, but you really need to be
mindful of what is a reasonable payload,
in order to get a good experience.
So if you remember that little bit,
we've seen a couple of times now,
wanting to make sure that that's
the kind of experience that people have.
We use something like this.
So this is more complete view
of calling font face observer,
and then, creating the initial
construction of how we're
handling the class switching,
looking for a session storage variable.
In this case, we're only loading in one
web font, so that's defined as font A.
And there's a promise
that's constructed when it
links together all of those different
assets, and once they are all true,
then it will switch those classes around,
and reset the session storage variable.
And the important thing being here that,
well there's two things, one,
is it's getting the class
switching done for you, and
this script should be in line
in the head section of the page.
As soon as you call your CSS,
then have this JavaScript in.
That's going to give you the fastest
performance in having this stuff just
work quickly.
And that session storage variable is
faster to access than checking the browser
cache itself, so
that's gonna tell the browser,
just go get it, I know it's there already.
So that avoids some of the repaint
issues that you see in Chrome.
Then, going in and setting our h1, and
balancing that out with,
when the .wf-inactive class is present,
don't call the web font,
you get the stuff on screen right away.
That can make a several second difference.
So it's between no content,
and all the content, and
you can just make that problem go away.
It's tremendously powerful.
And the reasons why we want to keep all
these things in mind, is there's a gap
in support for @font-face and JavaScript.
Now, it's not that browsers can't, so
Opera Mini, which is in place
on about 400 million handsets.
Maybe more now around the world.
It supports JavaScript, but
doesn't support @font-face.
More browsers going back further into
the depths of time support @font-face,
than support all the JavaScript.
They're not the same thing,
so you can't conflate them,
you really shouldn't conflate them.
You wanna make sure that you lean towards,
I'm going to say JavaScript has
to work in order to give the web fonts,
or I know you're gonna get the web fonts,
I'm going to use JavaScript to
make that experience better.
One way or the other depending on your
own users, you wanna lean into that, and
optimize for that use case.
So in some parts of the world,
you might wanna optimize for
web fonts simply not being there.
But use JavaScript to make sure that
you can provide that fall back.
You can also tie things
into bandwidth detection.
It might be a little extreme for
web fonts, but
I've done that with the decision to put
a photo or a video on a home page, and
that can be really effective, too.
>> Student: So do you know if
your users have the JavaScript by
the developer tools?
So how you would go about knowing if,
for example, in the UK how [INAUDIBLE].
>> Jason Pamental: Well
that's the trouble,
is that you can't really know objectively.
You have to structure you code to work,
you just kinda have to make inferences.
So that's why one of the things
that a lot of frameworks will do,
is you write your HTML with a node
JS class in the HTML element.
And then, use JavaScript to
replace it with the JS class.
So if no JavaScript ever fires,
then you have a no JS class present,
and you can use that to scope CSS.
And you could then do things like make
decisions about wrapping the @font-face
declaration, and scope it with
the absence or presence of that class.
So something like that, you could then
decide if you wanted to lean into,
okay, if there's no JavaScript,
no web fonts.
So you could then just write your CSS,
wrap the @font-face declaration in
a JS class, so that way, it would
only load the web fonts if JavaScript
has already processed that one thing.
So It's not that you can be absolute, but
we can layer a few checks in place to see,
is it a reasonably performant browser?
Are these things behaving
as we might expect?
If they are, then, yes,
I want to build up this experience.
The truth is, though,
JavaScript may never fire,
you can still give somebody a good
experience with the web fonts.
It might take a couple seconds longer for
stuff to load, and show up onscreen.
That's where you have to weigh what's
most important, ultimate performance,
or experience.
So you have to make a little trade
off there, because we can't know.
It's not possible given
the nature of the web right now.
So like I said, you want to choose what's
right for your user base, your project,
your purpose with whatever it is that
you're working on to decide which
way you want to lean in structuring
your CSS, and JavaScript loading.
>> Jason Pamental: But by and large,
I think making sure that you have
the fallback stuff, and trying to
lean into using the JavaScript for
the class switching, will make sure
that for all those devices that
aren't going to get the web fonts,
they'll still get a good experience.